---
    layout: essay
    type: essay
    title: Progress in Programming Report
    date: 2022-04-04
---

My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways: 

Some ways that my programming skills improved is that I'm able to look at blocks of code and understand what the code is meant to do. However, when it come to writing the code myself, I still struggle. Furthermore, I have a good handle on the basics such as when to use what tags, and the importance of correct punctuation. Beyond that, I can't say I'm confident in much else.

I need to work on the follow to improve my programming skills:

There are many ways I need to improve. I think the most important is to fully understand the documentation of certain functions. I usually have to look up specifically how to do things, which is often confusing since there's such a variety of sources available online. Additionally, I need to improve on thinking through what I'm trying to do before I start testing out code. I have a bad habit of just starting before thinkng out the logic, which causes a lot of problems as I progress in the assignments. 

I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast.

I do think I've learned a lot from doing the WODs since it allowed me to really apply what I learned in the labs and readings. However, I couldn't do all of them without copying the screencast because I think I lacked a good understanding of certain concepts. However, once I watch the screencast, I can make sense of why things are done. Although, I will say that the WODs did not help me much in doing Assignment 1 because I didn't remember much of the specifics from the WODs.

The labs have helped me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence.

Out of all the other aspects in class, I think labs help me learn the most. However, it's a bit frustrating when we aren't able to finish the labs in class, and often have to complete most of them on our own. I'm not confidence in completing them independently, and since I learn most from the labs, I was really lost when it came to Assignment 1. 

I have learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2.

Assignment 1 was really tough for me, and for that reason, it taught me a lot. For one, it taught me that I have to be better about managing my time when it comes to these assignments. I went in for help too late in the process, and therefore didn't have enough time to complete it to the appropriate quality. It also helped me gain a much better understanding of many concepts, with makes me feel better prepared for Assignment 2. However, I not say I'm confident in my ability to complete Assignment 2 and have a long way to go.

I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways.

The best way I can think of is to be able to finish the labs in class. This way, I can be sure that what I'm doing is correct, and can use these as a reference for my assignments. Without guidance, I'm pretty sure what I do on the labs is incorrect, leaving me with limited material to refer to when it comes to bigger projects.

What helps me the most in class are:

One and one help and working with classmates. Naturally, I'm not very good coding and I needed a lot of assistance to be able to complete Assignment. I was persistent in trying to complete it myself, although nothing really clicked until I went in for help from Professor Port. With his guidance, I felt more confident in the things I was coding and I was able to actually complete the assignment.