---
    layout: essay
    type: essay
    title: Reflecting on Assignment 2
    date: 2022-04-18
---

Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details.

Assignment 2 required us to code login and registration forms to provide security for the store we created in Assignment 1. We were also expected to save any new registration information to use in later sessions. You can read more about this assignment [here](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2.html). 

What did you learn from the assignment?

From this assignment, I primarily learned how to use File I/O and how to pass data from page to page using a query string. Assignment 2 also forced me to further my understanding in previously learned topics as I really cleaned up my code and implemented other useful aspects

Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).

I did not work with a partner.

How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?

When I needed help, I went to the professor. I found that this was the fastest and best way to completely understand what I was struggling with. For this assignment, most of what I needed help with was cleaning up my code and working out structure problems that I couldn't figure out. I also struggled with properly passing transient data since it would always throw errors in my application.

How was developing this assignment different that Assignment 1?

Developing this assignment was different from the first because this one was less about design. Assignment 2 really required use to understand the concepts in order for us to actually implement them in our application. Assignment 1 also required this, although we had more freedom and options in how we built our applications. 

Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something (b) write code (but do not include testing), and (c) testing and debugging.

I would say 50% was used for testing and debugging, 30% for thinking things through, and 20% for writing code. Testing and debugging took up majority of the time because there were always small problems in the code I wrote, and sometimes the problems weren't obvious so it took a while to figure these out. 

Describe what worked well with this project. What did not work well?

For this assignment, I believe my time management was a lot better which allowed me to reallt work through my code and get the help I needed. I also felt like I understood the main concepts required for this assignment compared to Assignment 1. The thing that did not work well for this assignment was the preciseness that was needed for the code to work properly. It was really frustrating when I knew I had the main idea correct, but the tiniest adjustment would cause it to not work.

If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?

If I could do things differently, I would've changed certain design choices I made in the first assignment. While doing Assignment 2, I realized things would've been a lot easier if I chose to do things differently in Assignment 1. For example, I would've generated my invoice page on my actual server instead of making it a separate html.